We already set up the password controller to display our page,
and now just like we did in our account registration,
we're going to capture that information to reset our password.
So we're going to grab that email address and username that we just entered
on that JSP page and go ahead and post an event through the events
scheduling system we have inside of our app already and receive that with a
listener that will then fire off that event.
So let's go ahead and implement that PostMapping now that
will capture all that information for us.
The post method is going to go right inside of our PasswordController.
We've already defined that GetMapping inside of here so let's just go
below that and add a little extra space in there.
And the PostMapping has the convenience annotation of @PostMapping.
We can also use the older style request method and associate a post with it.
And this has a couple of arguments in the method signature
here for Password and BindingResult,
and you'll notice that just as we've done before, we have a
Valid and ModelAttribute of password in here.
Now,
this particular course is not going through all of the specifics of Spring MVC,
and so I'm not going to discuss the valid and model attribute.
I've done so a little bit throughout the course, but
if you have more questions on that,
go back to the Spring Fundamental Spring MVC course and watch
some of that to see how we get a valid object passed in and what
the model attribute is referring to.
So I'm going to put a couple of placeholder comments inside of here that
will help show you what you could do to flesh this out to be an even more
complete example, but it's going to be a full functioning example, and those
steps would be that we should check for errors in the binding result, verify
that it's a valid email address adhering to a regular expression format of
an email address, verify that that email is stored in our system in our
database, and then we are going to fire off an event to reset the email,
and that's what we care about inside of our application to show how that's done.
The other things you can choose how you want to do that inside of your app,
and again, reference that Spring Fundamentals course.
So to do this,
we are going to add an application event publisher and we want to
autowire that in here, so we'll say @Autowired, and then add in the class
of ApplicationEventPublisher and eventPublisher.
And the reason we can autowire this in is this is supplied by
Spring as one of the configured beans already.
So if it's not clear to you where that's coming from,
I mentioned that before,
but it's a little bit of a mystery to some people, it is supplied as
part of our Spring application context already. So we have our
ApplicationEventPublisher in here now and then we can go back down
to our method signature, and inside of here, we're going to need to
create another class, but I'll go ahead and type this out already,
so we'll say eventPublisher and we will publish an event and it is an
ApplicationEvent, and we'll say new and we have not created this class yet
OnPasswordResetEvent and that's going to take the password object, and we'll
give that a contextual string of conference_war, and if you'll remember from
when we did this before, that string, that conference_war context is what we
have named our war or what our URLs inside of our application and that could
easily be injected in through a properties file, read from a database, there is
a number of ways to get it, but to keep it simple,
I've just gone ahead and hardcoded that inside of here.
And then before we create that class, we're going to return,
and this return is going to do a redirect to our
password page that we just created,
and we're going to give it a param of sent = true.
Now we don't necessarily need to do anything with this, but if we
wanted to use some of those Twitter Bootstrap CSS helpers that we
already have inside of our app,
we could display a email sent message or something like that, we've
already done that a couple of times inside of here,
it just gives us a way to know what's going on on the backend.
Let's save this and go ahead and create that event now,
and we should be able to just hover over that error message
and select to Create class OnPasswordResetEvent and we want
to choose the util package, not the controller,
which it defaults to, and click OK, and you can see that it
already extends ApplicationEvent and it carried through that
it's expecting a valid password.
We've already verified that in our controller,
so we don't need to pass that in here, and we can change that string to
appUrl. Then we'll go ahead, and for the super constructor that it's going
to pass through, we'll say it's on the password object, and we have two
variables we want to store inside of here.
We're going to have a private String appUrl and a private Password, it's just
the object that we're going to throw this event on, and we'll say Password
password, store that, and for those two instances,
we'll say this.appUrl is equal to appUrl and this.password is equal to
password just storing those two objects. If we go below that constructor, we
can right‑click and say Generate, Getter and Setter,
choose both of those variables, and save that.
And now we have everything in our app to fire off that event that
we have now created inside of our controller.
So let's save this, go back to our controller, and it's automatically
imported that for us because we created it from here.
So the whole front‑end piece is now done for us to
choose to select the forgot password, which will go to the controller,
return the JSP page where we enter in our username and password, enter
that information, post it back to that controller,
which will gather it. We have these comments here of things you could do
in addition to the example that we're doing, and then we'll fire off that
event using the application eventPublisher,
which captures that password and URL and sends that off
to our asynchronous system inside of our app that's
already provided to us by Spring. Let's look at the next steps that we need to do to finish out this example.